[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> DAVE ASPREY: When I was in
my 20s and I met someone who was
85, he had more
energy than I did.
Like, wait, that's possible.
The reason I look
different now is
I actually do the deep
research, and then I test it--
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: And I write about it.
You want to know how to have
the energy to work hard to push.
But what we've
taught ourselves is
that we should always do that.
I made $6 million when I was 26.
>> REGINA: Yeah, it's crazy.
>> ASPREY: Lost
it when was I 28.
Oops.
Your body wants to get
a signal like this.
I was walking along really
slowly and then a tiger came.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: Your cells need fat
and animal protein to do this.
And I know that's not
politically correct.
That's just what science says.
So it's not because
you lack willpower.
It's not a moral failing.
It's just because
something you're eating
is punching you in the
brain, and you don't know it,
and you think it's healthy.
I'm reasonably fit for a guy
who used to weigh 300 pounds.
>> REGINA: Total transformation.
>> ASPREY: How much exercise
do you think I do every week?
>> REGINA: Dave Asprey is a
man dedicated to efficiency.
Once a big shot in
the programming world,
today he's taking
those skills to hack
the understanding of the human
body to an incredible degree.
Some of his tenants are primal,
such as you should feel better
after eating a meal, not worse.
Everything is about
energy production,
so we can operate at
our highest levels.
Dave, it's so good
to see you again.
>> ASPREY: It's been almost
10 years since we last got
together.
>> REGINA: I know.
I wouldn't even recognize--
you look fabulous.
>> ASPREY: Thank you.
>> REGINA: I wouldn't
recognize you.
Before you had long hair.
You were just getting
going on "Bulletproof"
and you had your little blender.
And you had your
MCT oil and coffee,
and we were drinking it in
the studio that's long gone.
And so, gosh, what a journey
over the last 10 years.
You've learned a
tremendous amount.
>> ASPREY: I have.
I've been blessed.
Even when I was in my 20s
and I weighed 300 pounds,
and my brain wasn't working and
chronic fatigue and all that,
I started learning
anti-aging and longevity
from people in their
80s, and ended up
running a nonprofit group
near Stanford University.
So a lot of what is today,
the field of biohacking,
I very consciously added
the longevity components
from my elders.
And when I was in my 20s, and
I met someone who was 85--
his name was Mike--
he had more energy than I did.
I'm like, wait, that's possible.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: And so I got my
energy back when I was young,
and I learned you can have
more energy your whole life.
And then I ended up writing a
big "New York Times" bestseller
on longevity,
called "Superhuman."
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: So the reason I look
different now is I actually do
the deep research, and then I
test it, and I write about it,
so that people can learn.
And my goal is there's always
a free way to do these things.
We know something matters
that we didn't know mattered.
So how do you do it at no cost?
How do you do it
for pretty cheap?
And then what do the
crazy billionaires do?
And yes, it's
expensive, but they're
proving it, which makes
it more affordable for all
of us over time.
Just like cell phones
used to be real expensive.
Now they're cheap.
>> REGINA: That
always makes sense.
I mean, it goes to the
people who can afford it.
It's very exotic.
Boom, boom, boom.
Pretty soon they're able
to produce it in more mass
quantities at a fair price.
So this-- thank you--
thank you, billionaires,
for hiring you so that we
have the advantage of it.
We were talking off
camera and found out we
both have something
really interesting.
We both have adrenal
insufficiencies
and have to supplement.
But it took us to
the conversation
we're going to get into in a
little bit about histamines.
>> ASPREY: Right.
>> REGINA: There
are so many things--
OK, so let's just start.
There are so many
things we have to get
to because we just don't know
what we're doing to our bodies.
No one-- you've taken
the time to understand.
>> ASPREY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: I know a fair amount.
The things you've just
told me off camera
this morning are going
to change my life.
I'm so excited.
OK, new book.
"Smarter, Not Harder."
And what you're saying is
that the human body, just
like every other
animal, is designed
to be lazy and efficient
and spring into action when
necessary, but to be
able to fully rest.
Let's talk about the theory.
>> ASPREY: Well, the word lazy
is a major trigger for most
people.
>> REGINA: Yes, it is.
>> ASPREY: How many times does
a coach or a teacher or parent
said, don't be
lazy, you're lazy.
And we assume that if
you're lazy or even if you
feel the desire to
not do something,
it's because of a moral failing.
And we can drop that shame.
The reality is that
all life on Earth
evolves to use as little
energy as possible.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> ASPREY: So your body wants
to be lazy and your mind wants
to do stuff.
And that mismatch is
natural, and it's OK.
And there's nothing
wrong with it.
But what you want to do is
say instead of working hard,
which is something-- you've
worked hard, I work hard--
but believing that
working hard gets
results, that's a toxic belief.
>> REGINA: It is.
>> ASPREY: How many people do
you know who've worked hard
and they don't get results?
>> REGINA: They
don't get results.
And not only that, then
they go over into--
and the reason I brought up
the adrenal thing to begin with
is so many people are
now into what's casually
called adrenal burnout.
>> ASPREY: Mhm.
>> REGINA: But you would say
it's even deeper than that.
>> ASPREY: It is
deeper than that.
Imagine we have two
people, and one of them
believes that working hard is
a moral-- it's the thing to do.
>> REGINA: It's an imperative--
>> ASPREY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: --if you're going
to be a productive human being
on this planet.
>> ASPREY: And you have
another one who says,
I understand that if
I can save energy,
that means I can spend
the energy somewhere else.
So this person can work
hard, but they're also lazy.
And this person just
believes in working hard.
So person A gets a shovel and
decides to dig a swimming pool.
Person B gets a tractor
and digs a swimming pool.
Now, which person worked hard?
The guy with the shovel.
And six weeks later,
he's almost got a pool.
The other guy is already
floating and having
some coffee or whatever you want
to drink when you're floating.
That's what I drink.
So which one was
morally superior?
Neither one.
One of them had the
tools available.
So in all the time he saved,
he could apply his energy
to parenting, to
learning a new skill,
to meditating, to taking care of
himself, to serving the world.
So you have a moral imperative
to take care of your body,
to take care of your energy
production and to not waste it.
>> REGINA: And to rest
when it's time to rest.
>> ASPREY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And, well,
see, this is a thing now,
and you're a part of it, is
a lot of people think, God,
I just need to slow down.
I need to close my
eyes for a few minutes.
>> ASPREY: Right.
>> REGINA: Oh, no, I can't.
I better have another
cup of coffee.
>> ASPREY: You know, I'm
not opposed to coffee.
I mean--
>> REGINA: No, I know.
"Bulletproof," it's all over.
>> ASPREY: Yeah, and a new
coffee coming is called danger
coffee, which has a
bunch of minerals in it.
And we'll talk
about minerals, too,
and how important those are.
>> REGINA: Oh, danger coffee.
OK.
>> ASPREY: Because-- it's called
danger because who knows what
you might do?
[LAUGHTER]
>> REGINA: But let's talk
about this philosophically,
whether at that moment,
if you have 20 minutes,
should you close your eyes,
and just let the world go,
and take some deep
breaths, rest a little,
maybe even have a cat nap, or
should you have another cup
of coffee?
>> ASPREY: Well, the
answer is it depends.
>> REGINA: OK, what
does it depend on?
>> ASPREY: It depends
on your biology.
It depends on who you are.
And it depends on what
you're working on.
So if you're working on
doom-scrolling on Instagram,
close your eyes
and take a break.
But if you're working
on a project that's
going to feed 100,000 people or
something on a tight deadline
that really matters--
>> REGINA: So do it efficiently.
>> ASPREY: Yeah, and you also--
you want to know how to have
the energy to work
hard, to push.
But what we've
taught ourselves is
that we should always do that.
And when you always do that,
you do what I did in my 20s.
I had a fantastic career
in Silicon Valley.
I made $6 million when I was 26.
>> REGINA: Yeah, it's crazy.
>> ASPREY: Lost
it when I was 28.
[LAUGHTER]
Oops.
And what I found back then is
I was working all the time.
And it was just like, I'll sleep
when I'm dead was the mindset.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> ASPREY: Why would you burn
the candle at both ends when
you could also light
it in the middle?
>> REGINA: That's just pouring
carbs and sugars into your body
trying to keep your brain
alive for the next thing.
>> ASPREY: And it turns out our
bodies are not designed that
way.
Everything in nature
evolves for the idea
that you need to work
hard and you need to rest.
And this is what
professional athletes
do, the ones who are now
professionals in their 40s.
Like Nick Foles has written
some stuff in some of my books.
Super Bowl MVP.
But he trains like crazy,
but then he rests like crazy.
And what most of us do
is we get into this mode
where we work all day.
And then we come home
and there's no break.
And then it's time to go into
parenting mode and relationship
mode.
And there's never a break.
What I found in
"Smarter, Not Harder"
is a new principle in biology.
And it says that
it's not how much
work you do that
causes you to improve,
it's how quickly you
turn on full volume
and then how quickly
you return to rest.
And doing this--
I'm going to shock you.
I didn't tell you
this before the show.
I'm reasonably fit for a guy
who used to weigh 300 pounds.
>> REGINA: You're very fit.
Total transformation.
>> ASPREY: How much exercise
do you think I do every week?
>> REGINA: Well, I know
a little bit about you.
So I know that you're
super efficient.
It's more animal-like--
what would you call it?
Interval training type of thing.
>> ASPREY: It's not
even interval training.
>> REGINA: What is it?
So give us how many
minutes a week--
>> ASPREY: I work out
20 minutes a week.
>> REGINA: So everyone's going
to want to know about that.
>> ASPREY: And I'm
just going to--
>> REGINA: Look at that.
>> ASPREY: --do the
caffeine tattoo thing here.
>> REGINA: I love it.
Caffeine molecule.
[LAUGHS]
>> ASPREY: This is how I
look as a guy who was really,
really unwell until I was 30.
I used to work out 90 minutes
a day, six days a week,
without fail.
And I still had a 46-inch waist
after 18 months of doing that.
So I wrote "Smarter,
Not Harder,"
because with artificial
intelligence, with the things
we now understand about
our biology, the ability
to monitor and measure,
you can save so much time
that now you can have
a meditation practice,
you can spend quality
time with your kids.
And people actually have
a hard time believing it.
So I started a company
called Upgrade Labs,
the first biohacking center.
We're opening 17 locations
as a franchise right now.
So we're bringing this out.
And that is the stuff the
crazy billionaires do.
>> REGINA: What's
it called again?
>> ASPREY: It's
called Upgrade Labs.
>> REGINA: Upgrade Labs, OK.
>> ASPREY: And you go in
there and we measure thousands
of data points.
You stand on a thing.
We use electricity to measure
and get a clinical grade thing.
Oh, so here's who you are
and how you are today.
And then what's your goal?
And what I found out, after
working with thousands
of people over the last
eight years at Upgrade Labs,
is that some people,
they actually want
their brain to work.
And some people, they
want to lose the fat.
Some people want
their energy back.
Some people want to
live forever, like me.
And some people just want to
manage their stress better.
And then you have the people
who say, I want to be stronger.
I want endurance.
Those are different goals.
So we help people figure
out, what's your top goal?
What's your number two goal?
And the whole "Smarter,
Not Harder" book
is about let's figure out
what matters most to you,
and let's figure
out where you are.
And then let's
figure out what you
can do that takes the least
time to get you there.
>> REGINA: It sounds
to me, though,
regardless of what you're there
for, the same systems are going
to work and affect all of
those aspects of your life,
more or less.
>> ASPREY: More or less.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: So what we
do is we figure out, OK,
what are your top two goals?
And then we pick the right
technologies that are
at Upgrade Labs-- and I write
how to do this stuff at home
in the book--
and then how do you know
how much of each one
to do to get there fastest.
And here's an example, if you
were to do what I used to do
and you say, well, I
want to lose weight,
I heard that cardio makes you
lose weight-- it doesn't--
but you might say I'm going to
do an hour of spin class five
days a week.
That's a pretty
aggressive regimen.
If you do that for
two months straight,
you will improve by 2%.
>> REGINA: 2%?
>> ASPREY: That's all you get.
And you sweated.
You had to do all that laundry,
take all those showers.
Someone was yelling
at the spin class.
You're pedaling because
the people behind you
are going to make fun of
you if you stop pedaling.
>> REGINA: Yeah, yeah,
no, I find it frenetic.
>> ASPREY: If you do what I talk
about in "Smarter, Not Harder,"
in 15 minutes a week,
without sweating,
you'll improve by 12%.
>> REGINA: Just give
us a little hint,
because right now I think every
single person watching this is
going to buy
"Smarter, Not Harder."
So give us a little hint
about the type of exercise
you're talking about.
>> ASPREY: This is an artificial
intelligence-driven thing
called REHIT.
And you can do it-- it's
best on the kind of bike,
but I teach people
in the book how
to do something close at home.
And it's based on that
principle that you
have to exhaust your
system as fast as possible
and then return to baseline
as fast as possible.
>> REGINA: So I mean, interval
training kind of does that,
right?
>> ASPREY: Interval training
doesn't do it very well.
>> REGINA: Doesn't do it well.
So tell us what's wrong with
that, because a lot of people
are propounding that.
>> ASPREY: I used to, 10 years
ago, that was what I was into.
>> REGINA: I know.
>> ASPREY: Because interval
training is better than chronic
cardio, going for long run.
Your body wants to get
a signal like this.
I was walking along
really slowly.
And then a tiger came.
And then you run.
And when you're at
Upgrade Labs, we
have the bike turn all the
way up for just 20 seconds.
And this is-- say you're
doing this in a park.
Walking slower than
is comfortable.
And then you run like crazy
until like you're going to die.
And it should be 20-30
seconds of full output.
You have to get
away from the tiger.
And then you lay
down on your back
and do slow, deep box breaths.
And the idea is to show
your body two things.
Number one, there are predators.
Number two, you got
away and you're safe.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: If you do that,
and you have enough minerals,
enough fat soluble vitamins, and
enough of the other nutrients,
like proteins and good fats and
some carbs, the body says, oh,
there was a stressor, I'm
safe, and I have nutrients.
Now I'm going to adapt.
I'm going to change.
But if you do
interval training--
I ran away from the tiger.
I didn't get a
chance to get safe.
Then I ran away from the tiger.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> ASPREY: And you send your
body a signal you're being
hunted.
And when your body thinks
you're being hunted
and you're not getting away,
even when you relax at the end,
the body says--
>> REGINA: It's still
going to maintain the fats
and everything it needs
to survive long-term.
>> ASPREY: It's not
going to put on muscle.
It's not going to change your
metabolism because it thinks
you might get hunted again.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: It's a signal
of full-out and then safety
and nutrition.
So if you're nourished,
and you're safe,
right after a super intense,
super short workout--
but think about it, you can do
cardio in the amount of time
it takes to brush your teeth--
I'm talking about three
five-minute sessions per week--
and get six times better results
than spending five hours.
>> REGINA: This is crazy.
But I mean, you
have nice biceps.
How does that happen?
>> ASPREY: Well, there's also
something called the cheat
machine.
And in "Smarter, Not Harder,"
I talk about five technologies
that put muscle on faster
than what we've always done.
So think about this.
The two kinds of
exercise in human history
are pick up rocks and
run away from tigers.
Cardio and weights.
So today, our
biggest innovation is
we concentrate the rocks into
iron bars and we pick those up.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: Better than nothing.
But you tend to get
injured when you do that.
So what I like to do is the
Upgrade Labs cheat machine.
And here, you're fighting
against an artificial
intelligence robot.
And your body is
very well adapted.
If you're going to pick
something up like a dumbbell
or something, you're
fighting against gravity
and the body is going
to protect your joints.
Well, when you're fighting
against something else,
like a resistance band
or against the artificial
intelligence machine,
the body says, oh, I
have to adapt differently.
You can put muscle on
three to five times faster.
>> REGINA: Resistance without
weight is better in terms
of injury--
>> ASPREY: Resistance
without gravity.
>> REGINA: Without gravity.
>> ASPREY: So you're
resisting something.
But the problem with gravity
is that if you throw a bowling
ball up in the air
and try and catch it,
it's going to be really heavy.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> ASPREY: So when you're
using these other systems,
it doesn't drop the way
the bowling ball would.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>> ASPREY: And then there's
a couple other technologies I
write about in the book.
One of them is very affordable.
And it's useful for
people who can't pick up
heavy things because of
joint injuries or just aging.
In this one, you take
like blood pressure cuffs.
And there's companies
who sell these.
And I write about
different brands and all.
And you put them on your arms
and you put them on your legs.
And it--
>> REGINA: Oh, I've
heard about this.
>> ASPREY: Yeah, it's called
blood flow restriction.
And you're saying,
that sounds weird.
It is weird.
But here's the thing, with
a small amount of pressure--
you don't want to
cut off all blood,
just a little bit of
the blood-- then you
can pick up the
2-pound pink dumbbell
and your body adapts
as if you're picking up
the 20-pound dumbbell.
>> REGINA: Wow.
>> ASPREY: So you put on muscle
and it actually raises growth
hormone.
And it improves
your brain function.
It changes the signaling of
lactic acid and nitric oxide.
So if you were
aging, and you say,
I don't want to pick
up heavy things,
you could pick up a pair of
blood flow restriction bands.
And then you could do
something very lightweight
and magically
muscles just turn on.
>> REGINA: All right,
well, let's see,
we've got only about
100 other topics here.
Thank you for that.
Let's get to sleep.
>> ASPREY: Sleep is something
that I have a love/hate
relationship with.
When I started the
biohacking movement,
I was vice president at a
publicly traded computer
security company, because I am
a computer hacker by training.
And I was starting
a global movement
around taking control
of our own biology.
So I only slept four and a half
hours a night for 18 months
straight.
Not good for you.
But I actually lost weight
and performed better
and started a company
that's done half a billion
in lifetime revenue
and has created
multiple billion-dollar
industry categories.
Now, I don't think
anyone should do that.
It's not good for you.
But what I have found, from
helping millions of people
lose weight, is that when
people start biohacking,
they almost always need
about an hour less sleep.
They're waking up fully rested.
I've been tracking my
sleep almost every night
for 16 years now.
And I sleep an average of six
hours and 32 minutes per night.
And people say, but
that's not enough.
I heard you need eight or
even nine hours of sleep.
There are three
studies now looking
at more than a million
people each over time
and the data is very clear.
People who sleep
eight hours a night
die more often than people
who sleep six and a half hours
a night.
That's where the
longest-lived people live.
>> REGINA: Die more often.
You mean younger.
>> ASPREY: They just have
a higher overall mortality.
The reason for this is not
that getting less sleep
is good for you.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: Healthy people
making energy properly need less
sleep.
So you change the
quality of your biology
and you just naturally
wake up and you feel great.
And since I've been
monitoring my sleep,
first with a headband-- not
Victoria's Secret approved,
we'll put it that way.
Now you can do it with
a ring or a wristband.
And you can measure, did I do
a good job sleeping last night?
And how many times have
you slept nine hours
and woken up kind
of feeling hungover?
I mean, I had chronic
fatigue syndrome.
I know exactly what that's like.
And you have brain fog.
I didn't even drink last
night, but I feel like I did.
Well, that's low quality sleep.
And there's things you're
doing before you go to bed,
there's things you're doing
while you're in bed that
lower the quality of sleep.
Here's an example.
This is one of those very
low-cost biohacks that's
in "Smarter, Not Harder."
There's a study in Japan,
where they measured
the effect of the amount
of light that leaks
around normal curtains
in most cities.
Just streetlights
and things like that.
It raises depression by 69% in
a study of 800 men in Japan.
And probably more for
women because they
tend to be more sensitive
to circadian rhythms.
But the study didn't
include women.
So you should get some
blackout curtains.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
That's easy enough.
>> ASPREY: What
that means, though,
is no light comes around them.
So Velcro on the edges.
And then if there's blue, or
yellow, or white, or green,
any LEDs in your room, a
little bit of tape over them.
So you actually
sleep in a dark room.
What do you mean?
Well, it changes everything
about your sleep architecture.
Turning off the LED
lights, getting dimmers
or those little candles--
LED candles at night--
dimming the lights
before bed, after the sun goes
down, it'll change your life.
Another big thing
for sleep quality
is having dinner earlier.
I do my very best to eat dinner
before or when the sun goes
down and to stop eating then.
>> REGINA: I agree, totally.
So don't overload
your body with food
and have it do a lot
of work before you're
getting ready to go to bed.
>> ASPREY: Yeah, go to
bed without a lot of food
in your stomach.
You'll feel much better.
>> REGINA: So we're going to get
to an area that's going to be
a bit controversial,
especially for this audience.
OK?
>> ASPREY: OK.
>> REGINA: You were a vegan?
>> ASPREY: I was a devout vegan.
>> REGINA: And I was
a devout vegetarian.
So I did have eggs
and cottage cheese.
>> ASPREY: Thank goodness.
>> REGINA: Things like that.
But nonetheless,
after almost 20 years,
I had severe problems starting.
And not only that--
this is horrible,
but I was driving down the
freeway and there was this
Sizzler ad between
Sedona and Cottonwood,
and I started
salivating back here--
>> ASPREY: Oh, wow.
>> REGINA: --looking
at that ad of steaks.
And I thought, no,
what's going on?
So you pick the
story up from here.
>> ASPREY: Well, I have
tried just about every diet.
And that's why I came out with
the "Bulletproof Diet," which
has helped millions of people
lose weight over the years.
And I tried Atkins.
I tried Keto.
I tried the Zone diet.
I tried vegetarian.
And then I said, well, I'm
going to become a vegan and then
a raw vegan.
And this was in the early 2000s.
And it was-- there wasn't
as big of a push for it
from big food companies.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> ASPREY: And what I found
was at first I felt amazing.
And I didn't know that the
reason you feel amazing
when you go vegan is that the
body goes into stress mode
and it turns up your
thyroid hormone.
>> REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>> ASPREY: So when you have
more thyroid, you feel good.
It lasts for about six weeks.
And after that, your
body can't do it anymore.
It gave you the thyroid
so you could go hunting
to find some meat.
But when I was a vegan,
I had all the things
that happened to vegans.
80% of people who go vegan stop
because it ruins their health.
And it can take years, like
it did for me, to come back.
So what happened was I
said, well, I felt so good.
I already am convinced
that the vegan diet is it.
And then I started getting
really bad joint pain and pain
in my muscles and my back.
And then I start
getting brain fog.
And then I said,
huh, that's weird.
So you double down
on being vegan.
>> REGINA: And then your
personality changed a little
bit, a little
grumpier, a little--
what happened?
>> ASPREY: Yeah, you become
unable to manage your emotions.
And what's happening
biochemically
is that your brain is
struggling to make energy.
When your cells can make
full power-- and your cells
need fat and animal
protein to do this.
And I know that's not
politically correct.
That's just what science says.
And I did not believe
any of these things.
I had to discover them
through my own suffering.
And when you don't
make enough energy,
the brain says, huh, what's
the part of my thinking
that's unnecessary for
me to survive because I
don't have enough power?
It's emotional regulation.
And so things start to feel
like they're triggering to you.
Or that's Everest.
I'm going to have to
climb this mountain.
When you're at full power,
it's just a foothill.
So this is why there are those
stereotypes about vegans--
and I say this lovingly
as a former vegan--
about emotional regulation.
It's because it's real.
And yes, you do get the glow.
The glow is I have to eat.
And the glow goes away.
And then you get thin hair.
And for me, I got--
actually, I shattered two
teeth just eating normal foods
because vegan diets
deplete minerals.
And this is why in
"Smarter, Not Harder,"
there's a whole chapter about
how to get minerals back
in your body, because all
these plant-based foods steal
minerals from your body.
>> REGINA: Oh, we're going to
get into everything they do.
Some of the chemicals
in them and so forth.
>> ASPREY: It's crazy.
>> REGINA: It is crazy.
So you-- then what happened
after you were vegan,
what was the next transition?
>> ASPREY: Well, I decided that
I was going to go to remote
parts of Tibet to learn
meditation from the masters.
So I have an active personal
development practice.
I have a neuroscience mystery
school called 40 Years of Zen,
where we measure brain waves
to put you in advanced state.
So I'm into this stuff.
It's part of biohacking.
And I went there to learn.
And I realized I can't be a
vegan or a raw vegan here.
What am I going to eat,
like raw yak or something?
There's no food.
There's basically no food there.
So I stopped being a vegan,
and I started feeling better.
In fact, I had a bowl
of yak butter tea, which
is by definition not
vegan, on the side
of Mount Kailash, which is the
holiest mountain in the world.
And it turned my brain back on.
I haven't felt like this
in a couple of years.
And that was the genesis
for me of coming back
to Silicon Valley
and figuring out
how to make Bulletproof coffee.
And when I started doing
that, my brain turned back on.
And since that time, I
have been with hundreds
of people who had their first
grassfed steak, sometimes
in years, sometimes with
tears in their eyes,
but they're tears of relief.
>> REGINA: I have to tell you
that's what happened with me.
I had gotten to the point
where my body was just
starting to shut down.
>> ASPREY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And so I
went to a doctor--
well-known doctor
who was British,
but people didn't know
he was also a mystic.
>> ASPREY: [LAUGHS] A
lot of the best ones are.
>> REGINA: And so he was
hearing whatever his guides
and my guides were
talking about.
And I'd had a
meditation that morning
and I saw I had to eat
steak and have red wine.
And I thought, but
I don't do that.
I'm a committed
vegetarian and animals
have every right to live.
And I mean, dyed in
the wool to my bones.
And he said, Regina,
what I'm hearing
is those two exact things.
So he reflected them back to me.
So I was crying.
I had a little medium rare
filet someone prepared lovingly
knowing the situation.
And I had salty
tears on it because I
felt like I was so
deeply betraying
myself and my beliefs.
And immediately I
started feeling better.
>> ASPREY: It's funny, you'll
see tears before the meat,
and those can be tears of,
like, I'm giving up my identity.
>> REGINA: Yeah, that's
what I was doing.
>> ASPREY: And after
you eat the meat,
they're tears of
relief and gratitude.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: And what I learned
on the side of Mount Kailash--
actually right before I
got to Mount Kailash--
I was at a Tibetan monastery,
and Tibetan Buddhists
love arguing and debating.
It's part of their--
>> REGINA: Oh, yeah, the
stomping and everything.
>> ASPREY: Yeah,
it's fascinating.
So I had spent 10 days
meditating at a monastery.
And then I went to a
new one and I said, hey,
you talk about no
killing, but you have
a yak skin on your prayer pole.
You're a hypocrite.
And he looks at me and
he's deep belly laugh.
And he says, Dave, one
death feeds everyone.
And that led me
to start thinking
about deaths per calorie.
I run and build a regenerative
farm on Vancouver Island.
32 acres with pigs, and
sheep, and chickens, and cows,
and vegetables,
of course, trees.
And what you find is that if
you eat grassfed beef that's
ethically treated and
ethically slaughtered,
you will kill less than
one animal per year
on a pound of meat a day.
If you eat any one of those
vegan processed burgers,
you are killing
thousands of creatures
that have a right to live.
We're talking turtles, bunnies,
salamanders, mice, shrews,
and all the ugly ones, like roly
polies, and worms, and stuff
that no one seems to like, but
they're necessary for life.
So we have these monocrops
of corn and soy and wheat.
They're sterilizing the land.
And if they don't sterilize the
land, when the tractor comes
through, there's always a
bunch of birds coming through
to pick up all the creatures
that were chopped up
by the tractors, not to
mention the ones that
are poisoned by this.
So if you can look
at a bowl of granola
or a Bowl of cereal
that's plant-based
and you think you're
not killing anything,
I am killing less
animals than you.
Because the entire
number of animals
that killed for me to eat
this grassfed beautiful animal
that I nourished
myself, well, it
was one, unless the cow
maybe stepped on a frog.
That was it.
Nothing else died.
And not only that, humans--
and this gets more esoteric,
but I've done shamanic training.
I do a lot of spiritual work.
There are certain
species of animals
where we entered a spiritual
contract between our species.
And for instance, dogs, they
protect us, we protect them
and we nourish them.
And that's our thing.
That's why you
shouldn't eat them.
Well, and horses, too.
They work for us.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> ASPREY: We protect them.
And then you look at cows.
Cows, we nourish them
and they nourish us.
Sheep, same thing.
So on my farm, when
it's time for the sheep
to go to slaughter, we
raise them very consciously.
They will walk to the
part of the property
because they know
that it's time.
>> REGINA: Really?
>> ASPREY: Yeah.
And it's a sacred--
>> REGINA: Well, my guides told
me this many years ago, too,
that there are agreements
that we're not aware of.
But it has to be
done consciously.
Buying something from
a big box store that
isn't raised ethically and
goes through a horrendous
slaughtering process, there's
no excuse for that either.
>> ASPREY: It also changes the
energetics of what you eat.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> ASPREY: And what we found
was when we have these ethically
raised--
sheep was the primary
thing we do on our farm--
they walk around and they eat
whatever plants they want.
So they're actually
choosing their supplements.
One leaf of walnut--
walnut is toxic for sheep,
but one or two leaves
is antiparasitic.
They'll eat some raspberry,
but not too much.
And people who don't
even like lamb,
they'll go to the natural
store that carries our products
and they'll buy
one packet of lamb.
And they come back the next
day and they'll buy everything
in the store, because they feel
so different when they eat it.
So to say that we're going to
remove animals from agriculture
so we can be vegan--
these animals have
a right to live,
and more importantly, those
animals build our soil.
Everywhere on my farm
where these animals are,
the plants are thriving
and the soil is thick.
And where the animals don't go,
the grass isn't very healthy.
So we need to rethink this
idea that a plant-based diet is
good for life.
No, part of what
makes Earth Earth
is having ruminant animals.
And treating them with
respect and care-- the way
you do that is you
buy from small farmers
because they care
for their animals.
And you can do it at
the farmers' market.
It's simple.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
That's what we do.
I mean, in my town--
I'm from a tiny town.
You go to the hardware
store where the family
has slaughtered one animal.
They have a little case and you
can get their grassfed beef.
And they'll just take one
down every now and then.
And our little town
is well fed that way.
>> ASPREY: And then you thank
the animal when you eat It.
You have gratitude.
And what happens then
is you live longer
and you get the
minerals from it.
So for people who are trying
to recover their health,
if you do what I did and you try
to become a vegan, like I said,
80% of people fail.
And there's something else--
and we'll move on to
another topic after that--
a large part of the current
movement around the vegan diet
is propaganda from the
animal rights movement.
I interviewed the daughter
of the founder of PETA,
Monica Hershaft, on my podcast.
And she was a devout
vegan until she almost
died and had to sneak meat.
And now she's an advocate
for eating grassfed ethically
treated animals.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> ASPREY: And she talks about
it on the show that this was
an emotional response to
seeing a slaughterhouse.
And when they realized people
weren't going to give up
highly nutritious food--
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> ASPREY: --they started
making up a health story that
isn't real because they couldn't
make people sign up for this
kind of cult-like behavior.
So I say this very lovingly.
I care about animal rights.
I care about the environment.
We need grassfed animals
to build soil, which
is our largest carbon sink.
And I kill less animals
than any vegan I know.
And I eat a pound or two of
grassfed ethically raised meat.
And it works.
And my quality of
life is so good.
And I feel good about it.
>> REGINA: Oh, I hear it.
I've been through
that journey myself.
And I understand completely.
So now let's talk about what's
happening in the protein
supplement industry, where
you can go to a store
and they'll have shelves and
shelves of basically what
look like Snicker bars that
are called protein bars.
[LAUGHS] Everyone's
thinking, oh, I love it.
I get to have a protein bar.
I'm doing something
good from my body.
>> ASPREY: Well, the big
food industry, a while ago,
they worked with a guy from
UCLA who said calories are all
the same.
And he's still well known--
Dean Ornish-- for promoting
this, essentially, vegan diet
or very close to a vegan diet.
And the belief there is since
all calories are the same,
you can just cancel out a
Snickers bar with a Diet Coke.
So saying that all
calories are the same
is permission to sell canola
oil and corn syrup as if they're
the same thing as a hamburger.
They're just not.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> ASPREY: Well, now in the
protein supplements business,
oh, you need to have protein.
Well, gluten is a protein.
And there is a
company out there that
makes Keto cookies
that are just gluten.
This is not good for you.
So different proteins do
different things to your body.
And in "Smarter, Not Harder,"
I go through the science
in just one of the chapters.
And the amino acid availability
score for animal proteins--
it doesn't matter if it's
dairy or meat-- there's
a slight difference between
eggs and dairy and meat,
but they're all substantially
better than plant proteins.
So you have these
people are saying,
well, this bar said it
has 11 grams of protein,
but it's plant-based
protein, which
means it acts like 3
grams of animal protein.
And there's--
>> REGINA: And a lot of times
like pea protein and so forth.
>> ASPREY: Yeah, I am
not a fan of pea protein.
>> REGINA: And
that's in everything.
That's in most-- if you go
get a smoothie somewhere,
it's usually pea protein.
>> ASPREY: Yeah, and
sometimes brown rice protein,
which is high in arsenic.
These are not what
we evolved to eat.
They're highly processed
industrial foods.
They're bad for the planet.
And they're bad for people.
But they're low cost.
And by giving them
a halo of health,
it's just like we used to be
able to sell in the big food
industry these diet
sodas and things just
on this idea of calories.
Now they're switching to
protein and saying, well,
you got to have more protein.
Let's put junk protein in there.
The most precious proteins
come from animals.
And you can do this as
a vegetarian just fine.
You can do it with eggs and
cheese or cottage cheese
and whey protein and things.
It's better to include red meat,
especially grassfed red meat.
And doing that
usually makes people
feel better very quickly.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> ASPREY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Well, so
what about collagen,
because I know you were
using collagen protein.
>> ASPREY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Collagen and whey,
are those relatively OK,
or is there some demarcation to
what's a good collagen protein
versus a bad collagen protein?
>> ASPREY: So when I
started Bulletproof,
collagen was an
unknown supplement.
And I made it into a
multibillion dollar industry
category.
And I did this by just
talking about the science
of collagen. I've
been on the "Dr. Oz
Show" and all kinds
of places just saying,
look, collagen matters.
The reason collagen
matters is that it's
the connective
tissue in animals,
and we don't normally eat it.
So by putting flavorless
collagen in your danger coffee,
or in your smoothie, or
however you like to eat it,
you end up getting another
maybe 20 grams of protein a day
from animals.
It's not the only animal
protein to eat because it's not
a complete protein.
But if you eat grassfed
hamburger meat, which
is very affordable, and you
have some extra collagen,
then you've upped your protein.
So I'm a big fan of collagen.
You can also, if you're
not allergic to it,
you can do egg white
protein, or just whole eggs
are cheaper and better for you.
>> REGINA: That whey--
>> ASPREY: Whey protein, as
long as you're not allergic,
whey can be really good for you.
You want grassfed
whey obviously.
And when you do these things,
magically something can happen.
A friend of mine who was
on low protein and just
didn't really know
it, I convinced
her to add whey
protein twice a day
and to get the number of
grams of animal protein
up to 1 gram per
pound of body weight.
And a week later, she
texted me and she said,
my entire life, since I was 18,
I've had an eating disorder.
I would binge.
And I've just learned
to live with it.
This constant gnawing
hunger all the time
and it's just a part of my life.
I know because I was the same
way when I was 300 pounds.
And she said, a
week after I started
adding enough animal
protein into my diet,
I lost the hunger.
And I don't know what
to do, because I'm
not hungry all the time, and
I've never lived this way.
This is in one week just from
having enough animal protein.
>> REGINA: Wow.
Now I've got a little
challenge for you
before we get into leftovers,
vegetables and histamines,
because I'm afraid of
leftovers because it can
cause a real problem for me.
I can end up in a bad place.
So I didn't know why, but
you're going to explain why.
>> ASPREY: Yes.
>> REGINA: So I have a friend--
and I mean I really
have friends, not
me-- who eats nothing
but basically chicken.
She eats chicken,
vegetables, and rice.
But she has to get up in
the middle of the night
to eat more because she has
gnawing, gut-wrenching pain
in the middle of the
night she's so hungry.
>> ASPREY: Oh.
>> REGINA: What's
going on there?
>> ASPREY: She probably
doesn't have enough good fat.
Or this happens to a lot of
people, especially women,
they just don't eat enough.
>> REGINA: She eats a lot.
She eats more chicken than
any human I've ever met.
Only-- mostly only
chicken, though.
>> ASPREY: The other thing she
has going on is that chicken
fat, which is apparently
the only fat she's getting,
it is high in omega-6 oils.
Omega-6 fats are the same thing
in soy, soybeans and canola.
This is why chicken
fat isn't good for you
but beef fat is good for you,
because beef fat is made out
of very different things.
So what happens over time
in an all omega-6 diet,
which is what most people in
America get if you eat at any
restaurant-- salad dressing,
and fried stuff, and sauces--
is that your cell membranes
become compromised
and your energy
production goes down.
A primary cause of Type 2
diabetes is omega-6 oils.
It's not--
>> REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>> ASPREY: It's not
just too much sugar.
People who are metabolically
healthy can eat sugar
and it doesn't hurt them.
I can have a large dose of
sugar and I'm just fine.
I couldn't do that 10 years ago
when I ate more omega-6 oils.
So an all-chicken diet
is deficient in fat.
If she added grassfed
butter to her food,
she'd probably
feel a lot better.
>> REGINA: OK,
thank you for that.
Now let's get to leftovers,
histamines and vegetables.
And you're going
to tell us which
vegetables don't hate humans.
[LAUGHS]
>> ASPREY: All right.
Well, there's--
>> REGINA: Let's
start with leftovers.
>> ASPREY: Yeah, let's
And I've written about
this for more than 10 years
and shared information about it.
When you have a
protein-containing food--
this can be soybeans, this
can be fish especially,
pork especially, but
even chicken or beef--
when you put it in
the fridge overnight,
a small amount of
microbial action happens.
Leftovers get not as
good as days go on.
Well, when protein breaks
down, microbes make histamine.
Histamine is a
cause of allergies.
So a lot of people today,
especially post-COVID--
if you had COVID, you can be
more sensitive to histamines.
This is one of the
aspects of long COVID.
>> REGINA: Oh, very interesting
to note for many people.
They're taking notes right now.
>> ASPREY: Yeah.
So then you eat the leftovers
and you get really tired
or you really want dessert.
It's because the histamine
is a neurotransmitter as well
as something that
causes allergies.
So you may feel heartburn that
isn't relieved by antacids.
It's because it's actually
a histamine response.
You may get flushing.
You may have a drop
in blood pressure.
You may have joint pain.
And I have this.
So if I eat foods that are high
in histamine, my eyes water,
I start sneezing and coughing.
And then I get tired
and then I want dessert.
So I generally
don't eat leftovers.
But if it starts to happen,
I take a little tiny bit
of Benadryl.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
We were talking
about this off camera
and you said you can
do the same thing
if you're going to have a
glass of wine, for example.
>> ASPREY: A lot of people
do not tolerate wine
because it's a high
histamine alcohol.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> ASPREY: You're better off
to not drink or to switch
to a distilled spirit that
doesn't have that problem.
But everyone likes wine.
So if you're going to
have wine, even one glass,
you don't want to
take a whole Benadryl
because you'll go to sleep.
So you basically just nibble
off just an 1/8 of a Benadryl
or a quarter of one.
Not enough to be
tired, but enough
that when you drink the wine,
you don't get the burning,
and you don't get
the tiredness, you
don't get the swelling of
the eyes or the runny nose
that you might expect from wine.
>> REGINA: OK, so we've
talked about leftovers and how
they're producing histamines,
primarily proteins.
You talked about wine.
What other foods-- because
I find that's true even
with soups and vegetables.
If they've been in
the refrigerator more
than a day or so, I
won't go near them.
I'm just afraid of them.
>> ASPREY: It turns out
that meat that's been cooked
for a long time, like
in a stew or a soup,
also will form histamine.
So some bone broth can
be really good for you.
But a lot of bone broth
is full of histamine
because of the
heat-based breakdown
of the amino acids in the meat.
So if you take a
sip of bone broth
and it just doesn't
feel right, then
don't drink the rest of it.
It's not like all bone
broth is good for you.
>> REGINA: And you can tell
because you'll get a bit
of a burning in your-- yeah.
>> ASPREY: Yeah, same
with fermented veggies.
So people say, oh, they're
really good for you.
Maybe.
But most of the time they're
not fermented properly.
So if you eat a kimchi or
something, and you take a bite
and it doesn't quite feel right,
and your body doesn't crave it,
it's probably not something that
you actually want to be having.
So I'm very careful
with fermented veggies.
And if you take a little bit and
it causes that gnawing hunger,
it wasn't compatible with you.
And the fact that
your friend can eat it
and they don't have as
much histamine response,
we're all different.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> ASPREY: And that's why
everything I do in biohacking,
if this happens, try this.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> ASPREY: I just want
you to get results,
so you have your energy back.
And histamine takes
so many people out
and they don't know it.
And they go, I just take
a nap after my meal.
You don't want to do that.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about
foods that do create histamines
in general.
>> ASPREY: The foods that create
the most histamine are anything
with protein.
The worst two foods you
can eat with histamine
are soy sauce and fish sauce.
And leftover fish is the worst,
followed by leftover pork,
followed by leftover
chicken or beef.
So for me, I'll eat one-day-old
beef that I cooked myself.
But if it's more than a
day, I just won't eat it.
It's not worth the
tiredness that it gives me.
And some people
are less sensitive.
It doesn't mean
it's good for you.
It just means your body
robustly makes antihistamines.
But how much of that do you
want to rely on over time?
So there's a variability
amongst people.
>> REGINA: So you're
talking about Asian food.
Soy sauce everywhere.
>> ASPREY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: OK, very interesting.
>> ASPREY: When I eat
sushi, which I love,
white rice is a good source
of carbohydrate, fish,
at least wild caught
fish, is good for you.
So what I do then is what
about a third of Japan does,
is you put a
sprinkling of sea salt
on it instead of soy sauce.
It solves the problem.
>> REGINA: Yes.
OK, thank you for
that little hack.
Now let's get to phytic
acid and oxalic acid
and which vegetables
tend to not like humans--
>> ASPREY: Oh, my gosh.
>> REGINA: --tend to want to
protect themselves from being
attacked and eaten by humans.
>> ASPREY: So all animals and
all life on the planet runs
this basic set of principles.
And the first thing we
all do is if something
is scary or a threat, you
run away from, you hide it,
or you kill it.
So you and I can run
away or stop a whatever--
a tiger from eating
us or something.
But plants can't run away
because they have roots.
So they can only hide or kill.
So if they hide, it's
something like a walnut.
You have to break
through that walnut shell
and they have spines
and things like that.
But what most plants
do is they evolve
toxic compounds that
stop their biggest
predators from eating them.
You can eat some of it.
But if you eat too much
of it, then you get weak,
you can't reproduce, and then
you die so they can grow.
So we have this
beautiful balance.
And phytic acid is present in
most grains and nuts and seeds.
And when you eat it, especially
in oatmeal, when you eat that,
it binds to the minerals
like zinc and magnesium
that are in your body and
calcium that you need,
and it prevents you
from absorbing them.
And when farmers like
me feed natural foods
like grass to cows, we
don't worry about it.
But when industrial
farmers do it,
they know that cows,
which can digest
a certain amount
of phytic acid--
there's so much in
this corn and soy
that they have to give
the cows special enzymes,
otherwise the cows break their
bones and can't reproduce.
Then they feed us
oatmeal and we can't even
protect ourselves from it.
And then we wonder why we
have osteoporosis and mineral
deficiencies.
>> REGINA: Interesting
because that's a very,
very popular healthy way to
start the day for millions
and millions of people in
this country, and in Britain.
>> ASPREY: Oatmeal raises blood
sugar as much as Coca-Cola.
So does oat milk.
So if you want to have
food cravings all day,
start with oatmeal.
>> REGINA: OK, gosh, we only
have a couple of minutes left.
Let me just really quickly--
you do vitamin--
I think you call
it DAKE, D-A-K-E.
>> ASPREY: Yeah,
let's talk about that.
>> REGINA: Let's talk about
that and minerals really quickly
before we sign off.
>> ASPREY: One of the primary
problems in humans today is
that we do not have
enough minerals.
You can meditate.
You can exercise.
If your body says, oh, I got
a signal to get stronger,
all I needed was some zinc
and copper and molybdenum
and some other things--
vanadium, whatever it is--
and it doesn't have it,
the body won't change.
Since your food is sucking
minerals out of your body,
and the food we eat doesn't have
very many minerals because we
depleted our soils,
because we don't
have animals
pooping on the soil,
we've kind of broken the system.
So it's your job
to do two things.
Number one, you need
broad spectrum minerals.
This is in danger coffee.
When you drink the coffee, you
get broad spectrum minerals.
And you need vitamin DAKE.
You can go to vitamindake.com,
which has the info about it.
And vitamin DAKE is a specific
combination of vitamin D, A, K,
and E. And the reason you need
these fat soluble vitamins
is that they direct the
minerals to tell them
where to go inside the cells.
And if you go to vitamin DAKE
and you get the vitamin DAKE,
it's meant to be
very affordable.
It's about $20 a month
for normal doses.
You do that plus
minerals 101, which
is broad spectrum minerals.
And then magically you
can have stronger bones.
You have a better
functioning metabolism.
And I'm a huge fan of nootropics
and longevity supplements.
I take 150 supplements a day.
I'm going to live
to 180 or more.
And the least sexy,
least interesting
are vitamin DAKE and minerals,
but they're foundational.
Don't spend money on
expensive supplements
until you get those two covered.
And it's almost boring
to talk about them.
But since the plants that
are now fetishized as healthy
are the ones that suck
minerals from you,
you will not be at full
power as a human being
until you get your minerals
and your fat soluble vitamins.
And by the way, you don't get
those vitamins from plants.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Yes.
Everyone's walking
around with brain fog
and being mean to each
other on the roads.
So what is the best
thing we can do--
just if there's one single
thing we can do for our brain,
what's the best thing we
can do, besides everything
you've already talked about,
to eliminate brain fog and kind
of clear up and get--
yeah.
>> ASPREY: We
talked about sleep.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: And we
talked about minerals.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> ASPREY: Those
are of primary--
>> REGINA: Huge.
>> ASPREY: --importance.
The next thing you can do is you
can find out which of the foods
you're eating are incompatible
with your biology.
Most brain fog is
caused by eating stuff.
Maybe it's the histamine foods.
Maybe it's the oxalate
foods, like spinach and kale.
Even red raspberries and
almonds are high in oxalates.
Those can cause brain fog.
So it's not because
you lack willpower.
It's not a moral failing.
It's just because
something you're eating
is punching you in the
brain, and you don't know it,
and you think it's healthy.
So what works for
a lot of people
is the induction phase
of the Bulletproof diet.
Or if you want to
make it real simple,
eat grassfed meat and sea salt
and herbs for just two weeks.
And maybe some white rice if you
really, really want some carbs
in that as well.
And at the end of the two weeks,
you'll say, what just happened,
my pants got bigger.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> ASPREY: Well, it's because
now something you're eating is
bad, then you add the foods in.
And then you have that green
smoothie you think is healthy,
and you wake up the next
day and your face is puffy
and your joints hurt.
Oh, maybe it was the
spinach and kale.
>> REGINA: Well, that's true.
You start with the
elimination of everything.
And then build back in because
our bodies will tell us.
Our bodies are intelligent.
We know when we don't feel well.
And like you say, everyone
has their kryptonite.
And whatever your kryptonite
may be may not be mine.
But we have to
discover it or we're
going to continue living
a lackluster existence.
>> ASPREY: There are
similar patterns,
but the one thing you don't want
to do is go on a green smoothie
cleanse.
The amount of anti-nutrients
and toxins in those
is so high that 10 days
of spinach and kale
can be enough to
form a kidney stone.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
I knew Stanley Boroughs.
>> ASPREY: Oh, yeah.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And I had a chance to spend some
time with him before he died.
Lemonade diet.
Again, putting people
into this blissful
state for a few days,
or a week or two,
and then you're
starving to death.
But that was-- I think
it turned a lot of people
on to the notion of
what happens when
you eliminate all the toxins.
And now you're saying just
go for some grassfed organic
meats, if you do
eat meat, and then
let your body tell you
what you can and can't
go for after that.
>> ASPREY: Beautiful.
>> REGINA: Pretty much?
OK.
Dave, we have-- well, we could
talk for hours, and prebiotics,
probiotics.
Yes, yes, yes.
>> ASPREY: Yes.
>> REGINA: But quality.
Thank you so much.
I've totally loved
talking with you,
and I loved our
pre-conversation.
And it's all wonderful.
And you're doing great
things for humanity.
Thank you so much.
>> ASPREY: You're so welcome.
And remember, the Gaia course
and "Smarter, Not Harder."
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> ASPREY: So I'm teaching
people biohacking.
I'm teaching all this stuff.
>> REGINA: And I've seen
a couple of the shows.
And there's so much
information there.
Absolutely.
Thank you so much.
I'm glad you're here
with us at Gaia.
You can see Dave's new
series on Gaia titled,
"Biohacking with Dave Asprey."
We just gave you a little nugget
of what lies ahead for you.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]